++ First Lesson

THIS IS A TEST TO SEE IF I REMEMBER HOW TO DO COMMIT AND ADD FILES

+++wikidPad

this is a tool that you can use to take notes and easily find information

you can link to more detailed pages by using WikiWords, which allow you to access more information on things you've already learned.

The only caveat is that you already need that page to be created to properly link to it.

+++ git and Github

we are going to use github to easily share your programs with me. Github is a web server that stores projects controlled by git, a version control system(VCS) which is commonly used in the CS industry. you may never use it again outside of this

you can use the web interface for a limited amount of things, but you need to install git. I'll teach you how to do that and how to commit changes to your files.

+++ Finding Information

Reading error messages:
    * determine if it is a run time error or compile time error
    *   if it is a run time error, it is likely a logic error (infinite loops, adding a string to a int, etc)
    *   if its a compile time error, it's likely a syntatical error(forgotten semicolon, incorrectly initialized variable)
    
    * locate source of error(the line the error originates from
    
    * correct error, by either doing it or googling it
    
Finding answers
    * Google is your friend
    *   often the documentation is full of jargon you can't understand yet
    *   google can often give you plain english results that you can understand super easy
    
    * if google does not work there are still options
    *   you can post a question to reddit either on /r/learnpython or /r/python or /r/learnprogramming or a plethora of other communities
    *   you can also use stackexchange(I typically stick with reddit)
    
+++first python program

print("hello world!")

one line of code. no semi colon to forget (but you could use one. it's unconvential and not recomended)
very simple to understand, nothing like "system.out"
no class declarations, but python is Object Oriented. We will learn more about that later in the course

+++ data types

Python contains all the same data types Java does: int, boolean, char, float, string. but declaring them is slightly different:

num = 5 #declares a variable named 5, automatically assigned the int variable type
word = 'string'#declares variable named word, automaticall assigned the string variable type
    
